Workflow Search refresh (#240)
temporalio/documentation: docs/server-workflow-search.md

sidebar_label: Search Workflows
---

## Overview

For many use-cases, you may have hundreds, thousands, or tens of thousands of Workflows.
Finding the one you want can become a non-trivial matter.
That is why the Temporal Server has built-in Workflow search functionality that enables you to search for Workflows via the CLI(tctl), Web UI, and SDK APIs.

To enhance this search functionality, the Temporal Server supports an integration with [Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/elasticsearch/).
By integrating with Elasticsearch, custom key-value search attributes can be added to Workflow metadata and SQL-like search queries are enabled.

Example:

```sql

> WorkflowType = "main.Workflow" and Status != 0 and (StartTime > "2019-06-07T16:46:34-08:00" or CloseTime > "2019-06-07T16:46:34-08:00" order by StartTime desc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WorkflowType = "main.Workflow" and Status != 0 and (StartTime > "2019-06-07T16:46:34-08:00" or CloseTime > "2019-06-07T16:46:34-08:00") order by StartTime desc
```

```

> Without Elasticsearch, search functionality is limited to listing Workflows by ID and type (open/closed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without Elasticsearch, search functionality is limited to listing Workflows by Id and type (open/closed).
```

sidebar_label: Search Workflows
---

## Overview

Many use-cases may have hundreds, thousands, or tens of thousands of Workflows.
This means, finding the one you want can be a non-trivial exercise.
To address this, Temporal Server has built-in functionality that enables you to search for Workflows via the CLI(tctl), Web UI, and SDK APIs.

To make this search functionality even better, the Temporal Server supports an integration with [Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/elasticsearch/).
By integrating with Elasticsearch, custom key-value search attributes can be added to Workflow metadata which can be referenced in SQL-like search queries.

Example:

```sql
WorkflowType = "main.Workflow" and Status != 0 and (StartTime > "2019-06-07T16:46:34-08:00" or CloseTime > "2019-06-07T16:46:34-08:00") order by StartTime desc
```

Without Elasticsearch, search functionality is limited to listing Workflows by Id and type (open/closed), and search queries are run directly against the Temporal Server database.

> The Elasticsearch database takes on the search query request load, relieving potential performance issues that can occur.

Reviewer 2: Technically ES is a database but nobody thinks of it that way. I would call it a "search engine" or just drop the qualifier altogether.

> So, for any use-case that spawns more than just a few Workflows, we highly recommend running Temporal with Elasticsearch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is why we highly recommend running Temporal with Elasticsearch, for any use-case that spawns more than just a few Workflows.
```

Follow the [Elasticsearch setup instructions](/docs/server-elasticsearch-setup) to do that.
The rest of this page assumes your instance of Temporal is integrated with Elasticsearch.

## Search attributes

> Search attributes are indexed and queryable pieces of Workflow meta data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Search attributes are indexed and queryable pieces of Workflow metadata.
```

| StartTime           | INT        |
| WorkflowId          | KEYWORD    |
| WorkflowType        | KEYWORD    |

These can be found by using the [CLI](/docs/tctl/#search-attributes) or the `GetSearchAttributes` API via one of the [SDKs](/docs/sdks-introduction).

There are some special considerations for the Default attributes:

> - Status, CloseTime, NamespaceId, ExecutionTime, HistoryLength, RunId, StartTime, WorkflowId, WorkflowType are reserved by Temporal and are read-only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ExecutionStatus, CloseTime, NamespaceId, ExecutionTime, HistoryLength, RunId, StartTime, WorkflowId, WorkflowType are reserved by Temporal and are read-only.
```

> - Status is a mapping of an integer to a state:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ExcutionStatus is a mapping of an integer to a state:
```

> - Status is a mapping of an integer to a state:

Reviewer: And maybe MixedCase? Like here: https://github.com/temporalio/api-go/blob/master/enums/v1/workflow.pb.go#L151

- bool
- datetime

Note that **keyword** and **string** types are concepts taken from Elasticsearch.
Each word in a **string** is considered a searchable keyword.
For a UUID, that can be problematic as Elasticsearch will index each portion of the UUID separately.
To have the whole string considered as a searchable keyword, use the **keyword** type.

For example, if the key `SomeUniqueId` has the value of "2dd29ab7-2dd8-4668-83e0-89cae261cfb1"

- As a **keyword** it would only be matched by `SomeUniqueId` = "2dd29ab7-2dd8-4668-83e0-89cae261cfb1".
- As a **string** it would be matched by `SomeUniqueId` = "2dd8", which could cause unwanted matches.

> Also note that the **string** type can not be used in "Order By" search queries.

Reviewer: I think it is called "clause":
```suggestion
Also note that the **string** type cannot be used in "Order By" clause.
```

- CustomDatetimeField
- CustomStringField

When performing a [ContinueAsNew](/docs/go-continue-as-new/) or using [Cron](/docs/go-distributed-cron/), search attributes will be carried over to the new run by default.

## Search queries

You can perform search queries for Workflows using an SQL-like "Where" clause via the [CLI](/docs/tctl/#search-workflows), list APIs via one of the SDKs([Go](/docs/go-search-apis)), or via the Temporal Web UI.

> In the Temporal Web UI, use the "Basic/Advanced" button to switch to "Advanced" mode and type the query into the search box.

Reviewer 2: Screenshot might be great

The following criteria applies to search queries:

- These operators are supported in search queries:
  - **AND, OR, ()**
  - **=, !=, >, >=, <, <=**
  - **IN**
  - **BETWEEN ... AND**
  - **ORDER BY**
- You will only be able to search for Workflows from one Namespace at a time.
- The default pagesize is 1000, and cannot be larger than 10,000.
- The range on a Temporal timestamp search query (StartTime, CloseTime, ExecutionTime) cannot be larger than 9223372036854775807 (maxInt64 - 1001)
- Search queries using a time range will have a 1ms resolution.
- Search query column names are case sensitive.

> - A `ListWorkflow` search query may take longer when retrieving a large number of Workflows (10M+).

Reviewer 2: Is this a threshold or does perf just get worse when there is more workflows?

Author: @alexshtin  ?

Reviewer: Not threshold for sure. Maybe some perf test made in the past. I am working on new ES test tool and I will be able to provide better numbers here later.

Author: OK, Leaving it for now?

- To retrieve a large number of Workflows without ordering, use the `ScanWorkflow` API.
- To efficiently count the number of Workflows, use the `CountWorkflow` API

> - To list only open Workflows, add `CloseTime = missing` to the end of the query.

Reviewer 2: This seems like a very specific bullet for this list.

Author: Ya, a bit - but also sort of a weird call to have to make some place else.

- If you use the retry/cron feature to search for Workflows that will start execution within a certain time range, you can add predicates on ExecutionTime.
For example: `ExecutionTime > 2019-01-01T10:00:00-07:00`.
Note that, if a predicate on `ExecutionTime` is included, only the cron/retry Workflow will be returned.

## Local testing

1. Increase the Docker memory to anything higher than 6GB (Navigate to Docker -> Preferences -> Advanced -> Memory).
2. Use the [Quick start guide](/docs/server-quick-install) to clone the temporalio/docker-compose repo.

> 3. Start the Temporal Server using the `docker-compose-es.yml` file, which contains Apache Kafka, Apache Zookeeper, and Elasticsearch).

Reviewer 2: Missing parentheses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Start the Temporal Server using the `docker-compose-es.yml` file, which contains Cassandra, Kafka, Zookeeper, and Elasticsearch.
```

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose-es.yml up
```

4. From the Docker output log, make sure Elasticsearch and Temporal started correctly.
If you encounter an "insufficient disk space error", try running the following command:

```bash

> docker system prune -a --volumes

Reviewer 2: Are there any potential negative reprecussions on the user for running this?

Reviewer: I would better remove this advice. And actually I have never seen this problem.

```

5. Register a local Namespace and start using it.

```

> tctl --ns samples-namespace n re

Reviewer 2: Wow is the command really "n re"?

Reviewer: these are aliases. lets use full names in the docs:
```suggestion
tctl --namespace samples-namespace namespace register
```

Reviewer: But actually why? Let's use `default` namespace and remove this all together.

```

6. Allow list search attributes.

```bash

> tctl --ns namespace adm cl asa --search_attr_key NewKey --search_attr_type 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tctl admin cluster add_search_attr --search_attr_key NewKey --search_attr_type string
```

```

Note that starting a Workflow with search attributes, but without Elasticsearch, will succeed as normal.

> However it will not be searchable and will not be shown in list results.

Reviewer 2: Minus the default attributes right?

Author: @alexshtin ?

Reviewer: So if we are talking about search attributes, no. None of them are supported w/o ES. If just about general search queries then search by WorkflowId, RunId, WorkflowType, ExecutionStatus, ExecutionTime, CloseTime are always supported.

Author: I updated the phrasing here.

- CustomDatetimeField
- CustomStringField

When performing a [ContinueAsNew](/docs/go-continue-as-new/) or using [Cron](/docs/go-distributed-cron/), search attributes will be carried over to the new run by default.

## Search queries

You can perform search queries for Workflows using an SQL-like "Where" clause via the [CLI](/docs/tctl/#search-workflows), list APIs via one of the SDKs([Go](/docs/go-search-apis)), or via the Temporal Web UI.

In the Temporal Web UI, use the "Basic/Advanced" button to switch to "Advanced" mode and type the query into the search box.

> ![](/img/docs/web-ui-advanced-search-button.png)

Reviewer 2: Awesome
